To use Labview control program						G Hall 	2 Nov 2018

Ext trigger to pigtail BNC from laser P/S 9-pin plug: 5 V pulse, 100 us works fine.
See VI History in control.vi for more documentation

Power On: laser P/S
Turn on this computer and select shortcut to BigSkyControl Labview project from desktop
Select and open (double click) Control.vi from Item list in project browser

On Control program front panel, select EXT or INT mode for flashlamp triggers,
   (EXT is default) 

The EXT lamp mode takes a single trigger for lamps, and generates the Q-Sw trigger internally 
at the specified delay, default value 140 us. 
Timing jitter will be about +/- 0.5 us relative to lamp trigger + nominal QS delay.
Low rep rate is ok; up to 30 Hz no problem. 

Start program
Select 'Warmup Lamps' and wait for temperature tp come up to >37 C as lamps fire with shutter off
Default lamp voltage is 725, below lasing threshold, if warmup is too slow, you can increase voltage to 800 or so.
Temp indicator will update every minute, or whenever "Start Warmup" is pressed.  Yellow background color on temperature
indicator shows low temp.  

Reset voltage to 725 (below threshold), open shutter.

Verify safe laser beam path, and press "Start Q-Sw" to initiate lasing.
Adjust voltage with slider or numeric control; "Set Voltage" will assert your choice when pressed.

On initial setup, voltage 825 gave about 10 mJ/pulse (100 mW at 10 Hz) and voltage 850 gave 20 mJ/pulse.
Full power should give >125 mJ 

To pause lasing without shutting down program, use "Stop Q-Sw" button and "Close Shutter" button.
To shut down laser and control program, use big "Stop - Puts Laser in Standby" bar.
Best not to use Labview execution menu bar stop icon to stop program.

BigSkyLog2018.txt file is automatically updated with shot counter and timestamp whenever program is closed 
with big "Stop" bar.  File is located in user Document directory\LabviewData.  You can edit and add other
comments if you wish, or archive and start new dated version periodically as it gets longer.  Output green power
would be a useful diagnostic to add from time to time.

Power off the laser P/S after a short cool down period.

Change notes for program are saved in vi.history for each vi.  [might have been damaged in saving for LV2015; changes
in SteimleLab were made with LV2018. Questions?  gehall@bnl.gov ]